Examples of system calls

PROCESS CONTROL

1. fork() - It is used to create processes. It takes no arguments and returns a process ID. 
	    The purpose of fork()is to create a newprocess, which becomes the child process of the caller.

2. exit() - The exit () system call is used by a program to terminate its execution. 
	    The operating system reclaims resources that were used by the process after the exit () system call.

3. wait() - A call to wait () blocks the calling process until one of its child processes exits or a signal is received. 
	    After child process terminates, parent continues its execution after wait system call instruction.

FILE MANAGEMENT 

1. open() - The open() system call is used to provide access to a file in a file system. 
	    This system call allocates resources to the file and provides a handle that the process uses to refer to the file. 

2. read() - The read() system call is used to access data from a file that is stored in the file system. 

3. write() - The write() system calls writes the data from a user buffer into a device such as a file. 
	     This system call is one of the ways to output data from a program.

4. close() - The close() system call is used to terminate access to a file system. 
	     Using this system call means that the file is no longer required by the program and so the buffers are flushed, 
	     the file metadata is updated and the file resources are de-allocated.

5. chmod() - The chmod command is used to change the access mode of a file. The name is an abbreviation of change mode.

6. unmask() - umask() sets the calling process’s file mode creation mask (umask) to mask& 0777. 

7. chown() - These system calls change the owner and group of the file specified by path or by fd. 
	     Only a privileged process (Linux: one with the CAP_CHOWN capability) may change the owner of a file.

DEVICE MANAGEMENT

1. ioctl() - The Linux System calls under this is ioctl (). ioctl () is referred to as Input and Output Control. 
	     ioctl is a system call for device-specific input/output operations and other operations which cannot be expressed by regular system calls. 
	     It handles information and its transfer between the OS and the user program.

2. read() - 

3. write() -

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT

1. getpid() - The system call getpid simply returns the PID of the current process.

2. alarm() - This system call sets an alarm clock for the delivery of a signal that when it has to be reached. 
	     It arranges for a signal to be delivered to the calling process.

3. sleep() - A typical sleep system call takes a time value as a parameter, specifying the minimum amount 
	     of time that the process is to sleep before resuming execution. 

COMMUNICATION

1. pipe() - pipe() is a system call that facilitates inter-process communication. It opens a pipe, which is an area of main memory that is treated as a "virtual file". 
	    The pipe can be used by the creating process, as well as all its child processes, for reading and writing.

2. shmget() - shmget stands for shared memory segment. 
	      It is mainly used for Shared memory communication. 
	      This system call is used to access the shared memory and access the messages in order to communicate with the process.

3. mmap() - This system call is used to access the shared memory and access the messages in order to communicate with the process. 
	    This function call is used to map or unmap files or devices into memory. 
	    The mmap () system call is responsible for mapping the content of the file to the virtual memory space of the process.